MUST use ALPN (#33)
kazuho/draft-kazuho-quic-quic-services-for-streams: draft-ietf-quic-qmux.md

closed immediately.

# Using TLS

When QMux is used over TLS, TLS provides capabilities in addition to
confidentiality and integrity protection.

## Protocol Negotiation

As in QUIC {{Section 8.1 of QUIC-TLS}}, when running an application protocol
over QMux over TLS, endpoints MUST use the TLS Application-Layer Protocol
Negotiation (ALPN) {{!ALPN=RFC7301}} to agree on an application protocol, unless
another mechanism is used for agreeing on an application protocol.

ALPN protocol identifiers identify the application protocol in use. Application
protocols that use QMux over TLS MUST designate their ALPN identifier and
specify that they use QMux.

QMux is not itself an application protocol and does not have an ALPN identifier.

TO BE REMOVED BEFORE PUBLICATION: During the development of QMux, its wire
format might change. Therefore, when testing interoperability of application
protocols using a draft version of QMux, applications should specify, for each

> ALPN identifier they define, which draft version of QMux is used.

Author: Excuse me! The explicit version was too hard for me.

Added the implicit example in e40a54e.

closed immediately.

# Using TLS

When QMux is used over TLS, TLS provides capabilities in addition to
confidentiality and integrity protection.

## Protocol Negotiation

As in QUIC {{Section 8.1 of QUIC-TLS}}, when running an application protocol
over QMux over TLS, endpoints MUST use the TLS Application-Layer Protocol
Negotiation (ALPN) {{!ALPN=RFC7301}} to agree on an application protocol, unless
another mechanism is used for agreeing on an application protocol.

ALPN protocol identifiers identify the application protocol in use. Application
protocols that use QMux over TLS MUST designate their ALPN identifier and
specify that they use QMux.

> 

Reviewer: We probably want to include a similar paragraph of text as in https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9001.html#section-8.1-2 abut what to do about negotiation failure. Here's a frankenstein proposal that fits into this draft

```suggestion
When using ALPN, endpoints MUST immediately close a connection (see {{closing-the-connection}}) with a no_application_protocol TLS alert (QUIC error code 0x0178; see {{Section 4.8 of QUIC-TLS}} if an application protocol is not negotiated. While ALPN only specifies that servers use this alert, QUIC clients MUST use error 0x0178 to terminate a connection when ALPN negotiation fails.
```

over QMux over TLS, endpoints MUST use ALPN {{ALPN}} to agree on an application
protocol, unless another mechanism is used for agreeing on an application
protocol.

ALPN protocol identifiers identify the application protocol in use. Application
protocols that use QMux over TLS MUST designate their ALPN identifier and
specify that they use QMux version 1. The identifier for a mapping to QMux MUST
be different from the mapping of the same protocol to QUIC version 1,
to retain compatibility with Service Binding and Parameter Specification
via the DNS {{?SVCB=RFC9460}}.

When using ALPN, endpoints MUST abort the TLS handshake with a
no_application_protocol TLS alert ({{Section 3.2 of ALPN}}) if an application
protocol is not negotiated. While ALPN only requires that servers use this
alert, QMux clients MUST also abort the handshake when ALPN negotiation fails.

QMux is not itself an application protocol and does not have an ALPN identifier.

TO BE REMOVED BEFORE PUBLICATION: During the development of QMux, its wire
format might change. Therefore, when testing interoperability of application
protocols using a draft version of QMux, applications should specify, for each

> ALPN identifier they define, which draft version of QMux is used. As an example, an ALPN identifier such as "myapp-12" could identify myapp draft-12 and imply

Author: I think what we want is "MoQ-QMux draft XX uses MoQ draft YY and QMux draft ZZ", and I agree that either "myapp-12-qx" or "myapp-12-qx-01" would be an improvement over "myapp-12."

However, I'm not entirely sure if "qx" or "t(cp)" is the right annotation to be used. Which of the following two do you prefer?

```suggestion
ALPN identifier they define, which draft version of QMux is used. As an example,
an ALPN identifier "myapp-12-qx" could identify myapp draft-12 and imply the use
of a QMux draft version specified in that myapp draft.
```

```suggestion
ALPN identifier they define, which draft version of QMux is used. As an example,
an ALPN identifier "myapp-12t" could identify myapp draft-12 over TCP, implying
the use of a QMux draft version specified in that myapp draft.
```
